A compiler is a program that can read a program in one language (the source language) and translate it to a target langauge. Important role of the compiler: to report errors in the translation process

If the target language is an executable program, then it can be called to process inputs and produce outputs

An interpreter is a different type of language processor.
It appears to directly execute operations in the source program and also takes user output to produce output.

Machine language of a compiler is typically much faster at taking input and producing output than an interpreted program. Interpreters typically give better error diagnostics.

Java combines compilation and interpretation. Java compiles to an intermediate form called bytecodes which are then run on a 'virtual machine'.

In addition to a compiler, many other pieces of software may be needed to create a target executable program. A source program may be divided into modules stored in separate files, and all of these files may need to stitched together by a preprocessor. The preprocessor may also expand macros into code.

The source code is then fed to the compiler. The compiler may choose to output assembly code as output so that it's easier to debug than binary. The assembly langauge is then fed into an assembler to make machine code.

Large programs are often compiled in pieces, so the relocatable machine code may be linked together with other relocatable object files and library files into the code that is actually run on the machine. The linker resolves external memory addresses, where the code in one file may refer to a location in another file. The loader then puts together all of the executable object files into memory for execution.

