Data structures are a specific solution for organizing data for items and capabilities, as well as how to store and retrieve the items.

A simple example of a data structure is an array. As an example, it can hold finite amounts of data, and a way to retrieve the information about a piece of data that is stored in it (like array[1] for instance).

Data structures can be abstract or concrete.

Abstract Data Types (ADT) specifies the operations that can be performed on some data and the computational complexity of those operations.

A Data Structure is a concrete implementation of the specification provided by an ADT.

You can think of an ADT as the blueprint, what a data structure is the translation of the ADT into real code. 

ADTs are used to specify how the data structure behaves, but it doesn't actually specify the implementation.

An ADT is a set of types, a designated type from that set, a set of functions, and a set of axioms.

Array example:

An ADT for a static array might be that it can store a fixed number of elements, each with an associated index and each element can be accessed by it's index.

The implementation details to make it a concrete data structure need to be ironed out though. Such as:

- Will the array be fixed at creation or can it be modified?
- Will the array by allocated statically or dynamically?
- Will the array be able to hold only one type or many?
- Is it going to be implemented as a raw chunk of memory, or as an object (and what attributes will it hold)?

Another example is a stack.

For the ADT, all it needs to be is a container that can hold an indefinite number of elements, but only needs be able to insert elements, and remove the last element inserted.

- For a concrete implementation, where are the elements stored?
	- An array?
	- A linked list?
	- A B-tree on disk?
- How do we keep track of the order of insertion?
- Will the max size of the stack be known in advance?
- Can the stack contain elements of any type or must all be the same type?
- What happens if removal is called on an empty stack? (will it throw an exception or return a null?)