The first move to more people friendly programming languages happened in the 1950s, with mnemonic assembly languages. Initially, these instructions were just mnemonic representations of machine instructions. Later, macros were added so that a programmer could define parameterized shorthands for frequently used sets of instructions.

A major step towards higher level languages was made towards the latter half of the 1950s with the invention of Fortran for scientific computation, Cobol for business data processing, and Lisp for symbolic computation. They are still in use today.

In the following decades, many other programming languages were created to make programming easier, more natural, and more robust.

Today, there are thousands of programming languages. They can be classified in a number of different ways. One classification is by generation. First-generation languages are the machine languages. Second-generation languages are the assembly languages. Third-generation languages are the higher-level programming languages, like Fortran, Cobol, LISP, C, C++, C#, and Java. Fourth-generation languages are languages designed for specific applications like NOMAD for report generation, SQL for database queries, and Postscript for text formatting. Fifth-Generation languages have been applied to logic- and constraint-based languages, like Prolog and OPS5.

Another classification of programming languages uses the term imperative for languages in which a program specifies _how_ a computation is to be done, and declarative for languages in which a program specifies _what_ computation is to be done. Languages like C, C++, and Java are imperative. Imperative languages have state, and statements change the state. Functional languages like ML, Haskell, and constraint logic languages such as Prolog are often considered to be declarative.

Von Neumann languages are programming languages whose computational model is based on the von Neumann computer architecture (although, I've heard that a lot of computers follow the Harvard architecture, but I digress).

Object-oriented languages support object-oriented programming, a programming style in which a program consists of a collection of objects that interact with one another. Simula 67 and Smalltalk are early examples of OOP languages, whereas C++, C#, Java, and Ruby are more recent examples. 

Scripting languages are interpreted languages with high level operators designed for "gluing together" computations. These computations were originally called "scripts". Awk, Javascript, Perl, PHP, Python, Ruby and Tcl are popular examples of scripting languages. Scripts are often much shorter than equivalent programs written in languages like C.

